---
layout: page
title: Privacy by design
parent: Methodologies and practices of Secure Development
grand_parent: Tasks
permalink: /tasks-Privacy-by-design/
nav_order: 1
---
# Privacy by design

The following principles are the foundational principles of privacy by
design: [[1]](#1)

-   **Preventive, not remedial**

Privacy by design does not wait for privacy risks to materialize, nor
does it offer remedies for resolving privacy infractions once they have
occurred --- it aims to prevent them from occurring. In short, privacy
by design comes before-the-fact, not after.

-   **Privacy as the default**

Privacy by design seeks to deliver the maximum degree of privacy by
ensuring that personal data are automatically protected in any given IT
system or business practice. If an individual does nothing, their
privacy still remains intact. No action is required on the part of the
individual to protect their privacy --- it is built into the system, by
default.

-   **Privacy embedded into design**

Privacy by design is embedded into the design and architecture of IT
systems as well as business practices. It is not bolted on as an add-on,
after the fact. The result is that privacy becomes an essential
component of the core functionality being delivered. Privacy is integral
to the system without diminishing functionality.

-   **Full functionality -- positive-sum, not zero-sum**

Privacy by design seeks to accommodate all legitimate interests and
objectives in a positive-sum "win-win" manner, not through a dated,
zero-sum approach, where unnecessary trade-offs are made. Privacy by
design avoids the pretense of false dichotomies, such as privacy versus
security, demonstrating that it is possible to have both.

-   **End-to-end security -- full lifecycle protection**

Privacy by design, having been embedded into the system prior to the
first element of information being collected, extends securely
throughout the entire lifecycle of the data involved --- strong security
measures are essential to privacy, from start to finish. This ensures
that all data are securely retained, and then securely destroyed at the
end of the process, in a timely fashion. Thus, privacy by design ensures
cradle-to-grave, secure lifecycle management of information, end-to-end.

-   **Visibility and transparency -- keep it open**

Privacy by design seeks to assure all stakeholders that whatever the
business practice or technology involved, it is in fact, operating
according to the stated promises and objectives, subject to independent
verification. Its component parts and operations remain visible and
transparent, to users and providers alike. Remember, trust but verify.

-   **Respect for user privacy**

Above all, privacy by design requires architects and operators to keep
the interests of the individual uppermost by offering such measures as
strong privacy defaults, appropriate notice, and empowering
user-friendly options.

---
<a name="SecurityByDesign"></a>

# References

<a name="1"></a>
[1] Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario. (n.d.). IPC - Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario. [https://www.ipc.on.ca/wp-content/uploads/resources/7foundationalprinciples.pdf](https://www.ipc.on.ca/wp-content/uploads/resources/7foundationalprinciples.pdf)